
---
title: "TPF Board Meeting Minutes for July 2020"
author: Makoto Nozaki
type: post
date: 2020-07-30 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
url: "/post/board-2020-07"
categories:
 - Perl Foundation
 - Sign in

---

TPF Board members meet every month and here are the minutes from the July 2020 meeting.

## Attendees

- Stuart J Mackintosh
- Dan Wright
- Dave Rolsky
- Curtis "Ovid" Poe
- Pete Krawczyk
- Ricardo Signes
- Makoto Nozaki
- Nic Evans (admin)
- Samantha McVey (For the TPRC CAT discussion)


## TPRC CAT debrief

### Structure

- CAT (Community Afffairs Team) report that the CAT worked very well for TPRC (The Perl and Raku Conference). The process was well defined.
- The training was effective and it helped - the role play created confidence
- Future opportunity: Potentially more defined rules on how talks are selected (check speaker's past violations)
- Stuart gave a very positive feedback to Samantha
- Region diversity (mix of European/American) worked well for the global conference
- Stuart proposed Samantha to take the CAT leadership position (unanimously agreed by the Board). Samantha accepted

### Incident report

- The CAT  will publish a transparency report for the conference.

## TPRC 2021

- What are our criteria for determining whether we will do an in-person conference?
- We may not be qualified to set the criteria. We are bound by goverment / professional risk judgement (e.g. CDC)
- Other unknown factors: attendees' willingness to travel, Hilton's business
- We will re-evaluate in December
- Organizers' time has to be considered too - Reach out to the Conference Committee to get an idea of reasonable amount of time to plan an in-person conference (Ricardo)

## The Raku Foundation Proposal 

- There was a proposal from the Raku community leaders for Yet Another Society to register 'The Raku Foundation' as an additional DBA (doing business as) 
- No disagreement - the board welcomes the development of this proposal
- Q: What does DBA mean legally? 
    - Org can use that name on a legal docs (such as opening a bank account)
    - It's an alias, it's not an organization
    - Impact for us to register another DBA should be very minimal
- Stuart to advise Raku community leaders that the board welcomes this proposal and continue the conversation

## Messages and suggestions from the community

- Strongly worded suggestions started coming since TPRC in general 
- Website issues
    - Dave to make a list of fixes to make. Known issues:
        - Contact email (hello@) is not published
        - Broken links
    - Nic to get requirements from Marketing Committee too
- Place for people to share their thoughts?
    - Build Community Outreach team - outside of the board - unanimous
    - Nic to start a blog post with Stuart
- Side discussion: volunteer retention and keeping them motivated

## Committees

- We (need|want) a legal committee
    - A set of people who can give a commercial guidance with a legal background
- Stuart updating the committee proposal

## Systems/Infrastrucutre Committee

- Ricardo offering to take the leadership
- Ricardo to write a plan and a charter
- Dave happy to help

## Parrot Fund

- Pete to get the amount of remaining money in the Parrot Fund by next week
- Background: Makoto needs it to close Perl 6 Development Fund

## Funds

- Proposal to close Perl 5 Core Maintenance Fund and Perl 6 Development Fund, then to launch Perl Core Development Fund and Raku Development Fund
- Why not call it "Perl Development Fund"
    - Originally the sponsors wanted to separate it from general Perl development
- Raku Fund grant eligibility
    - Consult Raku Steering Committee
- Final evaluation responsibility
    - Currently it belongs to the President
    - Discussion was had to see if it should be the Board or Grants Committee
        - Grants Committee has their own fund
        - Do Grants Committee want to manage?
- We will continue in the next meeting or email conversation

## TPRC Finance

- Revenue was made from the ticket sales and sponsorship
- Exact finance will be reported by Todd or Pete in the next 