
---
title: "Grant Proposal: Perl as piano sheet music/compiler/synthesizer"
author: Coke
type: post
date: 2018-08-19 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
url: "/post/grant_proposal_perl_as_piano_s"
categories:
 - Grants

---

The Grants Committee has received the following grant proposal for the July/August round.
Before the Committee members vote, we would like to solicit feedback from the Perl
community on the proposal.

Review the proposal below and please comment here by August 26th, 2018.
The Committee members will start the voting process following that.

# Perl as piano sheet music/compiler/synthesizer

- Name:

    Yang Bo

- Amount Requested:

    USD 2,500


## Synopsis

Write a piece of piano music in Perl, then compile it with a Perl compiler,
finally synthesize it with a Perl synthesizer. Yes, you can interpret any
piano music however you like with Perl, listen and enjoy it using Perl,
and touch Bach/Beethoven/Brahms/Schumann/Schubert all those great souls through
Perl.

## Benefits to the Perl Community

There's literally not once that I went to the explore page of github and
didn't see a project that's used to write music programmatically, music
and programming languages, they are such a combination and there's a lot
of interest of them among software developers, unlike natural
languages, both of them are precise, but while it may take a quite while to
appreciate a programming language, music could be feeled right now and instantly
grab one's mind, by providing a direct link from Perl to piano music,
one can listen to a beautiful piano piece and get impressed by Perl right
away, thus contributing to the attractiveness of Perl overall and potentially
get/keep new/old developers to Perl.

## Deliverables

1. A piano sheet music format that's:
    1. declarative.
    2. valid Perl code.
    3. able to describe arbitrarily complex piano piece.
    4. a natural and close reflection of a real piano sheet music.
2. A compiler written in Perl that compiles any piano piece written in this
format as MIDI.
3. A synthesizer written in XS that's:
    1. targeted to a freely available piano sample library so that there's no
    barrier for anybody to use.
    2. specialized in piano synthesizing so that efficiency is maximized,
    only two seconds are required to render the entire
    [Brahms Op.79 No.2](#brahms-op79n2-vid) on a six years old laptop.
    3. required for being self contained, you can of course use any other
    synthesizer you like better or a commercially one you've purchased but that's
    all optional.

## Project Details

It's a complete pipeline to produce piano music. The first part is the format
of the sheet music/source code, just like you don't write a program in machine
instructions but in a high level programming language, you don't write a
piece of piano music in MIDI instructions but in a much more natural way similar
to how you would read a piece of piano sheet music, you can have a look at
the source code of [Brahms Op.79 No.2](#brahms-op79n2-src) to get the hang of it.

Then the source is compiled by the compiler, which is the second part, to produce
binary instructions/MIDI for the synthesizer, it handles expansions, event
ordering, accidentals, key signatures, dynamic tempos, to name a few.

The third and last part is the synthesizer producing sound samples from data
generated by the compiler, which could then be played directly or encoded
and saved.

It's not a program to just make sounds, or play some notes/chords, it's designed
from ground up to interpret the most difficult/complex piano music, and it's
proven, I have already interpreted twelve pieces of piano music, most of which are
non-trivial classical pieces, and can be viewed at ["youtube"](#youtube).

## Inch-stones

1. Split this project out into a stand alone git repository, rebase all
related commits and write meaningful commit messages.
2. Write detailed documentation, especially for the music source format.
3. Upload the first release to CPAN, with source demos for three piano
pieces.
4. Read MIDI specification throughly, I'm using a cus