
---
title: "Community Leaders and Board Meeting November 2020"
author: Nic Evans
type: post
date: 2020-12-08 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
url: "/post/ommunityeadersandoardeetingovember2020"
categories:

---

Perl and Raku updates, mentoring, grants, sponsorship progress, conferences, trademarks and more were discussed amongst community leaders at the meeting held in November.  The  meeting is becoming an invaluable tool for the Board and community to communicate with each other about developments in TPF and the wider Perl community.

The Board looks forward to future successful community leader meetings with  representatation from a wide cross section of our community. The next meeting is on Friday 18th December at 1830UTC, via Zoom. We hope to see as many community leaders as possible. If you have anything specific to share, please do let the team know via the Community Leaders Slack Channel and we can add your update to the agenda.

The notes from the Community Leaders meeting, as well as from the Board meeting which followed are all shared below.

# Community Leaders Meeting 20 November

## Invitees

- TPF Board
- Nic Evans
- Jason C (Grants)
- Alex (Sponsorship)
- Samantha (CAT)
- Perl steering committee member
- Raku steering committee member
- Nige (Legal & commercial)
- Andrew Solomon (New community members)

## Attendees

- Board: Stuart Mackintosh, Dave Rolsky, Pete Krawczyk, Dan Wright, Allison Randal
- Leaders: Nige Hamilton, Alex Beamish, Daniel Sockwell, Samantha McVey, SawyerX, Andrew Solomon 
- Admin: Nic Evans
- Confirmed absence: Mark Keating, Makoto Nozaki

## Discussion


### Perl & Raku mentoring
Andrew Solomon introduced proposal -

Newcomers think Perl is a sparsely populated community. I have been looking at Python and saw 20k people all signed up, questions being answered quickly. Occured to me we should have similar for Perl. I know we have presence on Facebook, but not very welcoming to discuss tech.
First thought would be good to use Slack but didn't want to just do it, wanted guidance from TPF - so put together proposal for thoughts.

Opinion expressed:
- Possibility to turn it into teaching materials
- Slack vs other services - let's focus on TPF hosted chat service

Action: Document requirement and goals collaboratively and evaluate options

### Legal

- Raku trademark registration is done in UK and making progress in US and EU.
- The onion logo was discussed, including whether we should continue using it
- Stuart pointed out it's a three-way link of marketing, legal and technology
- Action: Set up further discussion between Marketing, Legal and other interested parties

### Grants

- Documentation Standards for the Perl 7 Era grant was completed earlier this month and has been submitted for payment.
- No new grants submitted during the November 2020 period. Next call is in January
- There was discussion over what to do with the Perl 6 (Now: Raku) Course with Exercises Grant. We expect the first deliverable within the next 3 weeks.
- Putting together a report of grants requested and approved over the last 3 years. Hope is to have them by early December.
- Planning to start working with GC in 1Q 2021 to propose some revisions to clean up our charter. 

### Marketing

- No update - no meeting in the past month. Marketing committee to meet next week (26 November). Will have update atfer that.

### Sponsorship

- Draft sponsorship letter and web page all written, awaiting sign off from Board
- Discussion
    - How to recognize donors
    - What donors expect in return
    - Best way to have ongoing sponsorship - "membersip" or "supporter"

### TPC and Conferences

#### TPC (US - organized by TPF)

We will decide if we hold the conference in person. Otherwise we need to look at how we do it virtually. We learned a lot in 2020. 


#### TPC (Europe - not organized by TPF)

Questions remain over whether there will be a conference in Europe in 2021.

#### FOSDEM

We have applied for a virtual dev room. It will be an alternative to the BoF event we were thinking.

#### Other events

We need to encourage events